---
layout: post
title:  "Graduation"
date:   2023-06-13 13:14:52 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

Today is June 13th, 2023. I'm writing this from my University's library in midst of finals week. Unlike the hundreds of other students around me who are furiously cramming for their finals, this is my first low-stress finals week. Although my classes weren't necessarily easy, my finals week was especially light because none of my classses had finals save for my take-home final for my econometrics class which I turned in yesterday. None of that is really important except for the fact that its given me an ungodly amount of time to reflect on the past three years as all of my friends are busy studying.

I'm seven days away from commencement and only two projects away from being done with all of my undergraduate coursework. The immenent threat of graduation doesn't feel especially surreal, although I am feeling a lot of uncertainty despite having the next couple years of my life mapped out. However, it does feel like time keeps speeding up. High school graduation felt like it was yesterday. I can also distinctly remember moving into my dormroom freshman year, attending my first zoom class, and meeting my first friends in college. The rest of college has kind of felt like a blur although I suppose that isn't necessarily a bad thing. I think without the photos saved on my camera-roll and in snapchat, it probably wouldn't take much to convince me that college only lasted one year instead of three. That’s not to say that college has not been an absolute blast. I’ve had more fun and met more friends than any other time in my entire life, and can honestly say I’ve become a much better person than I was when I started college. Although there were plenty of bright spots, I don’t think I can say it was the happiest three years of my life. But I think there were some benefits to that. It made me think plenty about what I wanted to do in my future, what things I needed to learn, and most motivated me to do a lot of things I probably otherwise would not have. 

I’m trying to keep this blog as a place for general reflection and also any academic interests I have, so the rest of this blog post might come across as a little boring. The purpose of this specific post is to compile my thoughts about whether what I have learned  in the classroom at college is valuable, and why it may help me down the road. 

********************************************************

I chose to major in Economics before I even started my first day of classes. This wasn't because I knew anything about it, (I quite literally did not know what the word even meant) but because my dad had said it was a good major. That was a good enough reason for me who had no direction at the time except for the fact that I knew I didn't want to do computer science. I didn't really learn anything my first year and college and was really only knocking out the gen-ed lower level requirements. Sure, I took two econ classes but they mainly just taught us how graphs and lines work and had no real relevance to my day-to-day activities. I definitely did not find any practical value in what I was learning that first year. I think regardless of what major I was going to choose, I proabbly would have had the same experience, mostly due to online school. Taking easy classes was a good way to adjust to living on my own. I learned plenty outside of the classroom however! Covid made freshman year something else, let me tell you. 

Sophomore year was more of the same. I started to get the feeling that some of the classes I took were weed-out classes, especially as each term the class size progressively got smaller. It wasn’t until spring of Sophomore year when I took game theory that I think Econ really started to change the way I saw things around me. There’s not much to say other than that the class was hard as shit, but I think formally modeling real life scenarios really made something in my head tick. It did feel needlessly complicated, but it also felt like I was really beginning to learn how to speak the foreign language that my professors had been teaching with. Game theory was really the turning point in college where I began to understand what Economics is really about, and where that type of thinking would be useful. 

My third and final year really took the momentum of that game theory class and ran away with it (It’s worth mentioning that yes, I was taking gen-ed classes at the same time of these economics classes, but I don’t think any of them really contributed substantial value to my education besides piquing my interest in new topics). I’m not going to walk through every course, but my general conclusion of my major was this: 

Economics focuses on studying social phenomena which puts the discipline in a uniquely difficult position. Trying to explain systems, without the ability to empirically test hypotheses like in physics or hard sciences, makes economists rely heavily on building causal models. These causal models, whether represented through mathematical equations or in terms of graphs and curves, can condense incredibly large concepts into tiny mathematical legos. Learning to think of concepts in terms of these models gives you immense power as you are able to stack and think much broader than you could in terms of words.

Is economics a pseudoscience? In short no, but it felt like a lot of the actual applications were inaccessible to undergraduates. Even my PhD and Masters level peers had difficulty understanding causal inference designs done by applied economists. Because of this, I think the real value for undergraduates studying economics is not to become an economist, but to learn how to *think* like one.  

********************************************************

I thought about this idea a lot towards the tail end of college, however I think my thoughts are succinctly wrapped together in Robert Lucas Jr’s [https://home.uchicago.edu/~vlima/courses/econ203/fall01/Lucas_wedo.pdf](What Economists Do). 

In terms of the next couple years, I'm hoping to learn more about Law and Economics. The field is a little bit enigmatic, but I think there really may be something there for me. 

